Americans spend millions of dollars
on supplements each year.
One of the most common and important,
especially for women, is calcium.
Ideally, it should be taken with magnesium,
which is important for calcium absorption.
But why is it so important
and what happens when you take it?
First, it goes down the esophagus
to your stomach, where it dissolves.
The nutrients then enter the small intestine.
They are absorbed through the walls of the small intestine
and enter the circulatory system.
This system is made up of your heart,
blood vessels and blood.
It is responsible for transporting oxygen
and nutrients to all of the cells of your body.
This includes your bones.
Although they are made up of minerals,
including calcium, phosphorous and sodium,
they also contain blood vessels,
nerves, the protein collagen, and living cells.
Besides being a component of bones,
calcium is also stored in them.
It is released when needed for other vital functions,
like regulating your blood pressure and heart rate.
If your body needs more calcium than it is getting,
it is broken down and sent back into your bloodstream.
Over a long period, this can create
holes in the bones, which weaken them.
Taking a calcium supplement
helps to prevent the bones from breaking down.